<@wvxvw> jack-zhang, sec
<@wvxvw> look at `http-request' function  [20:50]
<@wvxvw> basically, all you need is take the curl command in the specification
         and translate it into drakma function. If you want to do a bit more,
         assume that the info comes from a file in our repository, and read it
         from there (the token).  [20:51]
<@wvxvw> assume we use cl-json to print the json structure (you don't need to
         generate it, just print), or you can assume we'll output it to a
         file, whichever way you do it is fine.  [20:52]
<smithzv> You missed him...  [20:54]
<smithzv> I think we might implement that ourselves.  It would be nice to
          start sniffing out power words and we might not want to wait 5-8
          hours  [20:55]
<@wvxvw> yeah, I see, but what if he decides to wake up early :P
<@wvxvw> if we get to that earlier - nice, otherwise, hopefully, Jack'll do
         it.  [20:56]
<smithzv> They provide a curl example, I think it uses basic auth with an
          empty username and the token as the password.  If you we generate a
          test output, even a trivial one, we should slap it together just to
          see if it works.  [21:01]
<@wvxvw> yup
<jaccarmac> Hello again. Prof. couldn't point me to anyone specific, but he
            did bring up that Tetris is NP-C, which I hadn't considered. Makes
            me guess we'll have to sacrifice a little correctness for speed.
                                                                        [21:05]
<jaccarmac> I also have an idea about the power words, but I'll bring that up
            after I grab lunch real quick.
<jaccarmac> brb
<@wvxvw> yeah, that was to be expected, bon appetit.
<smithzv> "Yes, rotating a 180 degree symmetrical unit by 180 degrees causes
          an error."  [21:10]
<smithzv> Ouch, didn't think of that
<@wvxvw> heh  [21:11]
<smithzv> Which means that we should probably do something like, fingerprint
          each state with a hash, maybe, to make sure we don screw up?  [21:12]
<@wvxvw> yes, sounds like a good idea.
<@wvxvw> though this state would need to reset after the unit is locked.
                                                                        [21:13]
<@wvxvw> here's some data on the test games they gave:  [21:15]
<@wvxvw> max width: 50 
<@wvxvw> avg width: 17.291666 
<@wvxvw> min width: 10 
<@wvxvw> ------------- 
<@wvxvw> max height: 50 
<@wvxvw> avg height: 16.791666 
<@wvxvw> min height: 7 
<@wvxvw> --------------
<@wvxvw>                  
<@wvxvw> max length: 1000 
<@wvxvw> avg length: 180.0 
<@wvxvw> min length: 20 
<@wvxvw> --------------
<smithzv> I mean hash the entire board.  It doesn't matter if it is locked on
          not, if the same cells are occupied then it is an error
<@wvxvw> but you can repeat the entire state, as long as it's not the same
         exact piece it's ok.
<smithzv> oh, yeah, lets say that I get pieces such that I can fill the first
          line, surely I am leaving the board in the initial state it was in.
          Perhaps they include ls or ls_old or the score in that "previous
          state"?  [21:18]
<@wvxvw> this is a possibility too, but I'd rather just reset the state after
         the piece is locked - seems like less data to store.  [21:19]
<smithzv> "as long as it's not the same exact piece it's ok." Oh, I missed
          that  [21:20]
<smithzv> Okay, we are on the leader board now  [21:26]
<@wvxvw> did you write a submission script?
<smithzv> I just used curl  [21:27]
<@wvxvw> ah :)
<smithzv> I couldn't get drakma to work on the first try
<smithzv> They said that their server is a bit finicky
<smithzv> I passed in the weird code they sent out last night as a solution
          for problem 0 with seed 0 tagged with "test-submission".  It says 85
          points but it also says zero points on the second board, weird
                                                                        [21:28]
<@wvxvw> hm  [21:29]
<@wvxvw> well, maybe they know this specific code and don't want to score
         points for it?
<smithzv> Is high score bad on the first leader board, I think it might be
<jaccarmac> Which team are we?  [21:30]
<smithzv> Chaitin's Omega Men  [21:31]
<smithzv> I think we have zero points.  I probably just but in garbage and it
          gave me zero points as expected
<@wvxvw> ok, I have some odd statistics... average number of units per game is
         about 2, which means there must be some map (probably even more than
         one), where there's only one kind of unit  [21:35]
<@wvxvw> (there are also maps with almost 20 kinds of units)  [21:36]
<smithzv> Okay, I'm an idiot, I mistyped application, drakma works fine
<@wvxvw> :)
<jaccarmac> Anyway, my thought as far as words of power go: We're treating
            them like sequences of state changes, which they are. However,
            since we have them ahead of time, they represent states which are
            close to one another, and they are likely to have spatial overlap,
            we should be able to compile them ahead of time and create a kind
            of super-move.
<smithzv> Okay, I'll start packaging it up, I'll have to apologize to Jack
          later for poaching his work  [21:37]
<jangle> yes high score on overall leaderboard is bad
<jangle> its a sum of our ranks on individual problems
<jangle> high score on individual games is better, leading to a lower rank
<smithzv> jangle: thanks, that makes sense
<jangle> i'm back from lunch so i'm going to crank out my real work so I can
         get through this.  [21:39]
<smithzv> Okay, I'm putting these tags on it but they are not shown anywhere I
          can see.  I see no history of submissions.  [21:40]
<@wvxvw> problem 15 is one of the odd problems: only one unit, and it has 4
         hexagons.
<jangle> our overall score will continue to get worse as teams differentiate
         themselves, right now lots of problems have us tied for 3rd, which
         will keep our score low
<jangle> er… 
<jangle> maybe the tag only comes through if we do not error out  [21:41]
<jangle> leaderboard might not be an api, we might have to reverse the web
         interface for it  [21:42]
<@wvxvw> pieces actually look quite a bit more weird than you might be led to
         expect from regular tetris... I'm considering drawing these for the
         reference  [21:46]
<@wvxvw> i.e. there may be a lot of empty space between the filled hexagons.
<jangle> for tags, it looks like if there is supposed to be one with your
         submission, that it will show up in parens next to your team name
                                                                        [21:47]
<jangle> a graphic output of game states and pieces might be nice 
<jangle> however, it looks like all tags you've ever made end up being
         concatted to the overall leaderboard entry  [21:48]
<jangle> so i see a test-submission tag in the overall leaderboard
<jangle> i see a test-submission tag for problem 0 for us, not for problem 15
                                                                        [21:49]
<@wvxvw> problem 18 starts with roughtly 3/4 of the board filled :/  [21:51]
<@wvxvw> that must be a tough one.
<@wvxvw> smithzv, are you writing any printing functions yet?  [21:53]
<smithzv> I'm guessing no  [21:54]
<smithzv> I'm not sure what that is
<smithzv> jangle: thanks for catching that, I thought it would be on our team
          page
<@wvxvw> I want to write a function that prints out the unit given it's
         coordinates
<@wvxvw> simple ASCII output
<smithzv> I am going to push a simple submission skeleton  [21:55]
<@wvxvw> ok, go ahead, please
<smithzv> I put it on master.  You need a file called api-token in the root
          icfp-cl-... dir  [21:57]
<@wvxvw> ok
<smithzv> Okay, wvxvw , you want something that prints out the pieces in
          ascii, no problem.
<@wvxvw> yup, I'm on it already.  [21:58]
<smithzv> oh, okay, then I will go elsewhere
<smithzv> I'm using cl-json, it seemed like the obvious choice given the name
                                                                        [21:59]
<@wvxvw> yeah, I do that too.
<smithzv> Oh, I made a mistake.  If anybody is using that submit commit,
          please pull again in a few seconds  [22:09]
<@wvxvw> nah, not using it yet, working on printing  [22:18]
*** Fare (~fare@2604:2000:1303:613b:5dfc:ebbe:67c0:ea42) has quit: Remote host
    closed the connection  [22:37]
<jangle> clarification coming re: memory usage  [22:43]
<@wvxvw> yes?  [22:44]
<jangle> its coming...  [22:45]
<jangle> :-)
<@wvxvw> ah...  [22:46]
<jangle> aim for 45meg resident memory with 1gb available address space, and
         we should expect to be able to run the code on commodity hardware
         made within the last 5 years
<jangle> whatever this all means.
<smithzv> hmm....  [22:56]
<smithzv> 45 MiB resident is trouble for SBCL
<smithzv> We should continue to ignore this.  It will only come up during
          final testing anyway  [22:58]
<jangle> oh right…. i keep forgetting  [23:17]
<jangle> i'm wrapping up my work as quick as I can
<smithzv> wvxvw: can you push your ascii art code once it is working.  I'd
          like to use it  [23:18]
<@wvxvw> it's almost ready, one sec  [23:20]
<@wvxvw> ok, I realized there are some huge units, 8 hexagons across. so the
         code doesn't really treat it properly, but at least it doesn't error
         now.  [23:29]
<@wvxvw> ok, merged my change into master  [23:36]
<@wvxvw> Oh, but I forgot to add it to the system.
<@wvxvw> OK, hexagons should print better now, except for excess white space.
                                                                        [23:47]
<@wvxvw>   /\/\/\              [23:49]
<@wvxvw>   | | | |           
<@wvxvw>  /\/\/\/\           
<@wvxvw>  | | | | |          
<@wvxvw> /\/\/\/\/\          
<@wvxvw> | | |.| | |         
<@wvxvw> \/\/\/\/\/          
<@wvxvw>  | | | | |          
<@wvxvw> /\/\/\/\/\          
<@wvxvw> | | | | | |         
<@wvxvw> \/  \/  \/ 
<@wvxvw> this is the largest one
<@wvxvw> there are also units with holes :/
<@wvxvw>   /\/\/\              [23:50]
<@wvxvw>   | | | |           
<@wvxvw>  /\/\/\/\           
<@wvxvw>  | |   | |          
<@wvxvw> /\/    \/\          
<@wvxvw> | |     | |         
<@wvxvw> \/\    /\/          
<@wvxvw>  | |   | |          
<@wvxvw>  \/\/\/\/           
<@wvxvw>   | | | |           
<@wvxvw>   \/\/\/            
<@wvxvw>                     
<@wvxvw>                     
<@wvxvw>                  .
<@wvxvw> (dot is the center of rotation)
<smithzv> Whoa  [23:52]
<smithzv> Those are going to take up space at the repl, I wanted to use them
          in the print methods, don't think I can.  They are too big.  I guess
          they always will be when using characters
<@wvxvw> well, there are also quite large maps  [23:56]
<@wvxvw> something like 50x50

[Sat Aug  8 2015]
<smithzv> Yes, there are, it is just a bummer.  I didn't think it through
                                                                        [00:00]
<smithzv> We can still use them to get an idea of what we are looking at
<@wvxvw> another piece of info: most units are unique to their maps, very few
         occur more than 3 times
<smithzv> ok
<@wvxvw> also it doesn't sound like we'll be able to make search "local" as in
         looking into small pieces of the map.  [00:01]
<smithzv> I kind of feel that we should make all members of the unit relative
          to the pivot  [00:10]
<@wvxvw> here's what I'm thinking about the map: can we maintain, say, the
         "deepest well" parameter? This isn't a very smart heuristics, but
         seems to me like it could be at least some sort of heuristic.  [00:11]
<smithzv> It makes the calculations for rotations cleaner and it seems a
          better option than anything else I can think of
<smithzv> What is this parameter?
<@wvxvw> yeah, that a good idea. I've had this nightmare with coordinate space
         translations in Flash every time
<@wvxvw> the lowest unoccupied hexagon  [00:12]
<smithzv> oh, and we aim for it or something?
<@wvxvw> so that you would start fitting at that point
<@wvxvw> yes, like that
<@wvxvw> this is a naive strategy when playing tetris (you don't score very
         high), but it's less risky (as compared to leaving only the place for
         the I-shaped unit)  [00:13]
<@wvxvw> some other factors I can think of in scoring (when deciding where to
         put a piece)  [00:15]
<@wvxvw> difference between highest and lowest unoccupied hexagons  [00:16]
<@wvxvw> also, we can think about something like fractal dimension
<@wvxvw> i.e. how "curved" the border line is (say, its length relative to the
         map's width)  [00:17]
<@wvxvw> so that the algorithm would be tempted to put pieces with small
         spaces between them
<@wvxvw> /would/would not/
<@wvxvw> oh, how did you find this: asdf:system-relative-pathname? :)  [00:23]
<smithzv> I don't remember... Needed it recently, so fortunate  [00:24]
<smithzv> These are things that guide the block to the rough area but then we
          do a more rigorous search once we get close to the horizon, right?
<@wvxvw> yeah, that's a useful find. I'll need to update my stuff to use it
         too.
<smithzv> I have some recollection of somebody saying you shouldn't use it,
          but it sure seems to work well enough  [00:25]
<@wvxvw> I would be happy if I knew how well you can approach it iteratively
<smithzv> I'm going to make coffee
<@wvxvw> kk
<@wvxvw> what I'm thinking is: in most cases you only care about final
         destination, and the intermediate moves are the consequence of your
         choice of the final destination.  [00:29]
<smithzv> What are the stats on the source length?
<@wvxvw> But if the shapes are so "strange", it may be the case that you can't
         fit the shape because something blocks the way
<@wvxvw> max length: 1000   [00:30]
<@wvxvw> avg length: 180.0 
<@wvxvw> min length: 20 
<smithzv> I like that kind of thinking, I'm just scared that it will difficult
          to implement, we should try for it, it's early still
<jangle> work is done, need to take a break.  right now i'm tracking these
         items: submission system, powerword discovery from past submissions
         (so storing results for dissemination among group), web based gui for
         displaying game tiles, game playback?
<jangle> system for storing past gamestates so that we don't error out, and
         keeping track of our top rated submissions per problem for final
         scoring  [00:31]
<smithzv> what is the error out worry here?
<jangle> we need to check to make sure we don't repeate a piece
         position/orientation
<smithzv> Oh, right  [00:32]
<jangle> we could also attempt to discover powerwords by "fuzzing" the
         problems,  [00:33]
<jangle> instead of stricly make deliberate attempts to score high, we could
         play the game to discover words
<jangle> or do both of these things
<jangle> oh, and a better dashboard for our submissions  [00:35]
<smithzv> jangle: I would very much like to run solely for the purpose of
          discovering words  [00:39]
<smithzv> I think it is essential to doing well on this
<smithzv> For instance, problem 1 has a 1x1 unit that we can maneuver pretty
          easily to test things out, though the board is less clear.  [00:41]
<@wvxvw> smithzv, do you have any code for the map/game?  [00:42]
<smithzv> yes, I have it rendering in OpenGL, which is a pain.  I don't have
          any logic written yet  [00:43]
<smithzv> A pain because it isn't web based
<@wvxvw> well, maybe we could do it using SVG, it doesn't sound very hard, I
         also think I have hunchentoow with some other game set up
         already... maybe since we wanted to work on that game of life problem
                                                                        [00:44]
<@wvxvw> or Flash... :P  [00:45]
<smithzv> That is fine.  I will put the renderer out there.  I wanted to get
          to the point where you could play the game, then we could at least
          stick a computer in the persons place.
<@wvxvw> Can you push what you have to your branch? I'd like to see.  [00:46]
<smithzv> ok  [00:47]
<smithzv> wvxvw: how can I share some extra (git tracked) libraries via our
          git setup?  Can I just copy the repos into a sub-directory?  [00:55]
<@wvxvw> are you planning on changing them?
<smithzv> Not for this contest, no
<@wvxvw> you can add them as sub-modules  [00:56]
<smithzv> So, how do I do that?
<@wvxvw> oh, basically, you just add a directory under the project root
         directory and then
<@wvxvw> git submodule add repo-url  [00:57]
<@wvxvw> into that directory
<@wvxvw> actually, no, don't create the submodule directory, git sumbodule
         will create it.  [00:58]
<smithzv> okay, I'll try that  [00:59]
<@wvxvw> then we'll need to remember to also pull the submodules, once
         updating - this is a little more complicated than just pulling, but
         hopefully will not be much of a pain
<smithzv> Okay, I think I got all the submodules added.  I'll push to my
          branch so it will only screw it up (if it does screw things up)
                                                                        [01:13]
<@wvxvw> ok  [01:14]
<smithzv> Okay, it is pushed.  I should have rebased your changes.  I'll merge
          them in.  [01:16]
<@wvxvw> sure
<@wvxvw> few more minutes I'll check that out. I'm trying to add a document
         with units in cateogries and some notes.  [01:17]
<smithzv> I'll walk you through it when you are ready.  It is pretty hacky
          right now  [01:19]
<@wvxvw> 5 more minutes
<jangle> getting dinner back in a bit  [01:28]
<@wvxvw> smithzv you added repository from a local path
<@wvxvw> jangle, bon appetit  [01:29]
<smithzv> yes, some of these haven't been published
<@wvxvw> smithzv, did you mean to do that (i.e the repository isn't online)
<smithzv> I'm guessing that is a problem
<@wvxvw> ah... well, that won't work, unless I put them on the same path on my
         computer :)
<@wvxvw> yeah :)  [01:30]
<@wvxvw> how do you reference those? Are they loadable via Quicklisp?  [01:31]
<smithzv> okay, well it will take way to long to remove all of the
          dependencies, sorry...
<@wvxvw> if you don't want to uploade them anywhere, you could just share them
         via mail
<@wvxvw> you could just tar/gzip them, are they so big / need something
         installed on my computer?  [01:32]
<smithzv> okay  [01:33]
<@wvxvw> but do you intend on submitting them with the program, or are these
         purely for testing?
<smithzv> I will tgz them.  People only need to download to look at this.
          This is all temporary so I don't want to force people to go out of
          there way for these
<smithzv> testing, visual debugging  [01:34]
<@wvxvw> ok
<smithzv> I guess then you simply replace those submodule dirs with the
          directories?
<@wvxvw> will also need to edit some configuration files, but I can live with
         that.  [01:35]
<@wvxvw> Actually, it's probably better to not to add them as submodules,
         it'll be hard for others
<smithzv> wait, in my git repo I see the actual contents of the repos
<@wvxvw> did you make any more changes at the same time you added submodules?
         Maybe if you didn't it's better to revert
<@wvxvw> yeah  [01:36]
<smithzv> yes, I added the code that uses them
<smithzv> If you have the code, then just load them with ASDF/QL
<@wvxvw> this is what it does. It's not like a symlink. It tells git where to
         check the modules from (but git will pull them automatically / will
         keep their history separate)
<@wvxvw> Still, it'd be better to revert the submodules commit.  [01:37]
<smithzv> so, when I pushed I didn't push the code up, only a reference to the
          origin?
<@wvxvw> yes
<smithzv> Okay, I will do that before people might pull it
<@wvxvw> yup
<smithzv> Should be gone now.  Make sure you delete it  [01:40]
<smithzv> Do we still want to try to get this to you, or do we want to give
          up?
<@wvxvw> try to get it to me (send a tarball)  [01:41]
<smithzv> ok
<smithzv> Okay, I sent an email.  This doesn't contain a containing dir.
          Extract in in the repo dir and it should work, I think  [01:48]
<@wvxvw> ok, will do.
<@wvxvw> local-packages, or actually the project directory?  [01:49]
<smithzv> either should work
<smithzv> probably local-projects is better
<@wvxvw> ok
<smithzv> Also, I pushed the changes back to my branch on the server.  It is
          called origin/smithzv again, so don't let your git get confused
                                                                        [01:50]
<@wvxvw> ok
<jaccarmac> Hello again, guys. Back in lurk mode. I have some work work that
            needs to be done tomorrow at the absolute latest, and it looks
            like our visualizer won't work for me on Windows anyway, so I'll
            keep watching.  [01:58]
<jaccarmac> Let me know if you need anything.
<smithzv> We'll sort something out, like I said. temporary.  This is a lot of
          work for something temporary... :/
<smithzv> I'm taking the dog for a walk, be back in 10
<@wvxvw> ok, I'm trying to figure out why QL won't load :index-mapped-arrays
                                                                        [02:04]
<smithzv> back  [02:12]
<smithzv> It was included, correct?
<smithzv> Anything I can do to help?  [02:13]
<@wvxvw> yeah, but I need to sort out symlinks and such
<@wvxvw> I was able to run init-game, but I can't find the window it opened :)
<smithzv> It doesn't open a window
<@wvxvw> ah... how do I see what it does?
<smithzv> You should run (envisage:envisage) to open the window
<@wvxvw> ooooh, ok
<smithzv> In just adds things to the render list that the other scans  [02:14]
<@wvxvw> ok, I see now
<smithzv> Did it render a game board?
<@wvxvw> it shows a grid of black squares and some gray circles and a green
         pentagon
<@wvxvw> if I drag the map, it rotates around the green pentagon  [02:15]
<smithzv> The gray circles are the empty spaces, the green is supposed to be a
          pivot
<@wvxvw> oh
<smithzv> But it is in the wrong place
<smithzv> if there was anything on the map, it would be red
<smithzv> load problem_1
<smithzv> If you press '1' it will lock it so it won't rotate and you won't
          the 3rd dimensional stuff that we aren't using  [02:16]
<@wvxvw> it looks roughly the same
<@wvxvw> that worked  [02:17]
<smithzv> press f
<smithzv> to zoom out, r to zoom in
<@wvxvw> ok, it moves away from the "floor"
<smithzv> wasd pans  [02:18]
<@wvxvw> ok
<smithzv> I see https://imgur.com/XyNcPA6  [02:21]
<@wvxvw> for me it's rotated 90 degrees :)  [02:22]
<@wvxvw> oh, wait, I think I rotated it, nevermind
<smithzv> Yeah, press c to reset the view if you like
<@wvxvw> and the green pentagon is in a different place
<smithzv> Yep, I'm trying to fix it as we speak  [02:23]
<@wvxvw> aha
<smithzv> That is supposed to be the pivot.  It is supposed to go at the top.
          I'm not drawing the active unit so it is a bit confusing right now
<smithzv> Sorry 'C' to reset the view  [02:24]
<smithzv> 'c' just recenters  [02:25]
<@wvxvw> aha, ok
<smithzv> Some of the json files don't parse the way I think they should.  I
          get out of bounds errors...  [02:27]
<@wvxvw> hm... can you give names?
<smithzv> problem 10 for instance  [02:28]
<smithzv> Haven't looked at it
<smithzv> Map 14 is a pentagram
<@wvxvw> bah  [02:29]
<smithzv> I'm starting to wonder if I have the indexes transposed...
<@wvxvw> yeah, that would explain the out of bounds
<smithzv> and a lot of the maps look sideways
<@wvxvw> #10 is not a square (10x7)
<smithzv> yeah, that was it.  I need to swap the indexes on line 56 of
          game.lisp  [02:31]
<smithzv> works now
<@wvxvw> I've been thinking... I'll probably take a nap soon (it's 2:30 here),
         but I want to have a program for tomorrow  [02:32]
<@wvxvw> Do you think you'll get to writing positioning of the piece on the
         board?
<smithzv> yes, pretty soon  [02:33]
<smithzv> I think I have the pivot drawn in the right place now and that
          defines the other positions
<@wvxvw> I mean the actual calculation, not the visual part, right?
<smithzv> I actually don't want to write positions until it is locked
<smithzv> Even then, I am still a bit purposefully nebulous regarding the
          implementation there.  [02:34]
<smithzv> I want to keep the design fluid
<@wvxvw> hmmm... how'd you lock without positioning?
<smithzv> read hackish and easy to tear apart if it doesn't work
<smithzv> I'm just saying that I want to keep the active unit separate from
          the board which is static.  When it locks, I guess it will get
          written to the board  [02:35]
<@wvxvw> ah. ok. I meant something else: what I thought I'd work on: take the
         board, the unit (at some coordinate) and check if it a valid
         position. Not much more.  [02:36]
<@wvxvw> suppose it fits: calculate some kind of score for how "well" it fits.
                                                                        [02:37]
<smithzv> oh, I see.
<smithzv> I don't think I will get to that in the forseeable night ahead, but
          perhaps when you wake up?  [02:38]
<@wvxvw> yes, then I'll start working on it when I'm up.
<smithzv> I have been aiming for a good framework so that tomorrow and the
          next day go enjoyably.
<@wvxvw> I also promised Jack I'll save the conversation for him.
<smithzv> Okay, you should do it now.  We should get him a bnc/znc instance
                                                                        [02:39]
<@wvxvw> well, so far it looks like we still have time for that :)
<@wvxvw> that's the first time I hear about bnc/znc :)  [02:40]
